hiring: Add Engineering Manager - Backend Platform (#2066)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/hiring/engineering-manager-backend-platform.md

# Engineering Manager - Backend Platform and Cloud

We are looking for an engineering manager to lead the team that is building the backend platform that enables our product engineering teams to iterate quickly and safely. The team's mission is to create leverage for and accelerate the velocity of other engineering teams by promoting and championing consistency and simplicity across all backend code, and by building shared tools, libraries, and scalable infrastructure for common use cases.

This team is currently called our "Cloud" team because it is focused on [building and launching the first version of Sourcegraph Cloud](../cloud/goals.md#private-code-on-sourcegraph-cloud). In the short term, you will help the team balance work on Sourcegraph Cloud as well as engineering infrastructure. In the medium/long term, you will figure out how we transition to a state where we have a dedicated backend platform team while ensuring that our cloud product is sufficiently owned and maintained.

## Responsibilities

You will:

> - Facilitate a inclusive and cohesive team environment where everyone is happy, motivated, and productive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Facilitate an inclusive and cohesive team environment where everyone is happy, motivated, and productive.
```

> - Model, teach, and reinforce [our company values](../../../company/values.md) and [our guiding engineering principles](../index.md#guiding-principles) to the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Model, teach, and reinforce [our company values](../../../company/values.md) and [our guiding engineering principles](../index.md#guiding-principles).
```

- You have experience breaking up complex technical problems into smaller achievable milestones that the team can iterate on.

## Learn more about us

To create a product that serves the needs of all developers, we are building a diverse [all-remote team](../../../company/remote/index.md) that is [distributed across the world](../../../company/team/index.md). Sourcegraph is an equal opportunity workplace; we welcome people from all backgrounds and communities.

We provide [competitive compensation](../../people-ops/compensation.md) and [practical benefits](../../people-ops/benefits-and-perks.md) to keep you happy and healthy so that you can do your best work.

Learn more about what it is like to work at Sourcegraph by reading [our handbook](../../index.md)

## Interview process

<!-- 1. You [apply here](#todo). --><!-- This is commented out because I will be sending some outbound messages before accepting applications. -->

1. Intro calls
   - 45m [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) (VP Engineering)
   - 30m [Tomás Senart](../../../company/team/index.md#tomás-senart) (Engineering Manager, Cloud)
1. Interviews.

>    - 1h [Team collaboration](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/team-collaboration.md). We ask you about how you work and communicate in a team setting, and how you handle tricky situations.
>      - The interviewers will be [Christina Forney](../../../company/team/index.md##christina-forney-she-her) (VP Product) and one of the following:
>        - [Rob Rhyne](../../../company/team/index.md#rob-rhyne)
>        - [Eric Broody-Moore](../../../company/team/index.md#eric-brody-moore)
>        - [María Craig](../../../company/team/index.md#maría-craig-she-her)
>        - [Alicja Suska](../../../company/team/index.md#alicja-suska-she-her)
>    - 1h [Engineering leadership](engineering-leadership.md).
>      - The interviewers will be [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) and another Engineering Manager except Tomás.
>    - 1h [Technical experience](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/technical-experience.md) - We ask you about your past work and accomplishments.
>      - The interviewers will be two of the following:
>        - [Ryan Slade](../../../company/team/index.md#ryan-slade-he-him)
>        - [Alex Russell-Saw](../../../company/team/index.md#alex-russell-saw-he-him)
>        - [Thorsten Ball](../../../company/team/index.md#thorsten-ball-he-him)

Reviewer: just reordering
```suggestion
   - 1h [Engineering leadership](engineering-leadership.md).
     - The interviewers will be [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) and another Engineering Manager except Tomás.
   - 1h [Technical experience](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/technical-experience.md) - We ask you about your past work and accomplishments.
     - The interviewers will be two of the following:
       - [Ryan Slade](../../../company/team/index.md#ryan-slade-he-him)
       - [Alex Russell-Saw](../../../company/team/index.md#alex-russell-saw-he-him)
       - [Thorsten Ball](../../../company/team/index.md#thorsten-ball-he-him)
   - 1h [Team collaboration](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/team-collaboration.md). We ask you about how you work and communicate in a team setting, and how you handle tricky situations.
     - The interviewers will be [Christina Forney](../../../company/team/index.md##christina-forney-she-her) (VP Product) and one of the following:
       - [Rob Rhyne](../../../company/team/index.md#rob-rhyne)
       - [Eric Broody-Moore](../../../company/team/index.md#eric-brody-moore)
       - [María Craig](../../../company/team/index.md#maría-craig-she-her)
       - [Alicja Suska](../../../company/team/index.md#alicja-suska-she-her)
```

>    - 30m [Quinn Slack](../../../company/team/index.md#quinn-slack) (CEO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - 30m [Beyang Liu](../../../company/team/index.md#beyang-liu) (CTO)
   - 30m [Quinn Slack](../../../company/team/index.md#quinn-slack) (CEO)
```

- You have done some amount of coding in the past 2 years (for example: at work or on a personal project) to keep your skills up-to-date. We expect that you are able to review and provide valuable feedback on code, architecture, and designs.
- You are able to clearly communicate your past accomplishments verbally (example: in an interview) and in writing (examples: in your resume, in your answers to our application questions).
- You have experience breaking up complex technical problems into smaller achievable milestones that the team can iterate on.

## Learn more about us

To create a product that serves the needs of all developers, we are building a diverse [all-remote team](../../../company/remote/index.md) that is [distributed across the world](../../../company/team/index.md). Sourcegraph is an equal opportunity workplace; we welcome people from all backgrounds and communities.

We provide [competitive compensation](../../people-ops/compensation.md) and [practical benefits](../../people-ops/benefits-and-perks.md) to keep you happy and healthy so that you can do your best work.

Learn more about what it is like to work at Sourcegraph by reading [our handbook](../../index.md)

> ## Interview process

Reviewer: This is a good default process that is consistent with what we have done in the past. I am also going to be taking some time to think about this process from first principles.

<!-- 1. You [apply here](#todo). --><!-- This is commented out because I will be sending some outbound messages before accepting applications. -->

1. Intro calls
   - 45m [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) (VP Engineering)
   - 30m [Tomás Senart](../../../company/team/index.md#tomás-senart) (Engineering Manager, Cloud)
1. Interviews.
   - 1h [Engineering leadership](engineering-leadership.md).

>      - The interviewers will be [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) and another Engineering Manager except Tomás.

Reviewer: I would ideally like to standardize (for this role) who the second interviewer will be so we get consistent signal and calibration across candidates, but that is something I will think about.

   - 1h [Technical experience](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/technical-experience.md) - We ask you about your past work and accomplishments.
     - The interviewers will be two of the following:
       - [Ryan Slade](../../../company/team/index.md#ryan-slade-he-him)
       - [Alex Russell-Saw](../../../company/team/index.md#alex-russell-saw-he-him)
       - [Thorsten Ball](../../../company/team/index.md#thorsten-ball-he-him)

>    - 1h [Team collaboration](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/team-collaboration.md). We ask you about how you work and communicate in a team setting, and how you handle tricky situations.

Reviewer: I am considering having one of the interviewers of this module be an EM too (to get another EM in front of the candidate, as well as because for this role there will be cross eng team collaboration too).

The [Cloud team](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/cloud) team will become the Backend Platform team once we hire a Product Manager to drive the Cloud project forward.

## Responsibilities

You will:

- Facilitate a inclusive and cohesive team environment where everyone is happy, motivated, and productive.
- Model, teach, and reinforce [our company values](../../company/values.md) and [our guiding engineering principles](index.md#guiding-principles) to the team.
- Ensure the team has clear incremental goals that are documented and are always up-to-date.
- Regularly communicate the team's progress toward their goals as well as changes in team goals to appropriate stakeholders.
- Support and coach teammates to grow in their careers and fulfill their responsibilities.
- Grow the team in a sustainable way so that the team can accomplish more over time.

## Qualifications

> - You have 2+ years of experience directly managing at least 6 full-time software engineers. We expect you already know how to lead a team.

Reviewer: What do you think about dropping the minimum to 4? (1) It is just a minimum qualification and (2) it feels like there isn't much material difference between 4 and 6.

```suggestion
- You have 2+ years of experience directly managing at least 4 full-time software engineers. We expect you already know how to lead a team.
```

- You have done some amount of coding in the past 2 years (for example: at work or on a personal project) to keep your skills up-to-date. We expect that you are able to review and provide valuable feedback on code, architecture, and designs.
- You are able to clearly communicate your past accomplishments verbally (example: in an interview) and in writing (examples: in your resume, in your answers to our application questions).
- You have experience breaking up complex technical problems into smaller achievable milestones that the team can iterate on.

> ## Nice to haves
> 
> - You have experience designing, architecting, scaling, and optimizing systems that span multiple layers of a tech stack (example: frontend, backend, CLI).
> - You have grown at least one junior engineer to a senior+ level.
> - You have designed a software engineer interview process from first principles.
> - You have built and delivered an application that works on multiple platforms (examples: different operating systems, cloud versus on-premise)
> 

Reviewer: Is this simply copy/paste from full stack role? Feels kind of generic for this particular role, so my proposal would be to delete these things by default and then add anything back that would be a specific nice-to-have for this particular role (e.g. past experience as manager or IC on team building a cloud product, past experience as manager or IC on team building backend application infrastructure)
```suggestion
```

Author: Yes, these were copied from the code intel manager job req. I'm fine leaving these out.

> # Engineering Manager - Backend Platform

Reviewer: Should we reference cloud here too since the current team is "Cloud"?

```suggestion
# Engineering Manager - Backend Platform and Cloud
```

> We are looking for an engineering manager to join the team that is building the backend platform upon which product engineering teams can iterate quickly and safely. The team's mission is to promote and champion consistency and simplicity across all backend code by building shared tools, libraries and infrastructure for common use cases, scale and maintain said infrastructure and ultimately create leverage for and accelerate other teams.

Reviewer: A few word changes and a bit terser. What do you think?

```suggestion
We are looking for an engineering manager to lead the team that is building the backend platform that enables our product engineering teams to iterate quickly and safely. The team's mission is to create leverage for and accelerate the velocity of other engineering teams by promoting and championing consistency and simplicity across all backend code, and by building shared tools, libraries, and scalable infrastructure for common use cases.
```

> The [Cloud team](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/cloud) team will become the Backend Platform team once we hire a Product Manager to drive the Cloud project forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This team is currently called our "Cloud" team because it is focused on [building and launching the first version of Sourcegraph Cloud](../cloud/goals.md#private-code-on-sourcegraph-cloud). In the short term, you will help the team balance work on Sourcegraph Cloud as well as engineering infrastructure. In the medium/long term, you will figure out how we transition to a state where we have a dedicated backend platform team while ensuring that our cloud product is sufficiently owned and maintained.
```

## About you

- You know how to authentically inspire, challenge, and grow individuals and teams.
- You are motivated to work on ambitious long term goals to solve complex technical challenges.
- You can effectively reason about and communicate the value of platform projects to stakeholders.
- You thrive in making plans with your team, and communicate those appropriately.
- You are [high agency](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/high-agency-its-importance-how-cultivate-shreyas-doshi/).

## Your responsibilities

- You will facilitate a cohesive team environment where everyone is happy, motivated, and productive.
- You will ensure that the team has [well defined goals that are aligned with the business](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/cloud#goals) that are effectively communicated to all levels of the company, and that the team is making continuous iterative progress towards those goals every week.
- You will help engineers grow in their careers.

> - You will hire exceptional engineers to grow the team in a sustainable way so that the team can accomplish more over time.

Reviewer: I want to work on merging and aligning this with https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/2075. Will propose some edits.

## Nice to haves

- You have experience designing, architecting, scaling, and optimizing systems that span multiple layers of a tech stack (example: frontend, backend, CLI).
- You have grown at least one junior engineer to a senior+ level.
- You have designed a software engineer interview process from first principles.
- You have built and delivered an application that works on multiple platforms (examples: different operating systems, cloud versus on-premise)

## Learn more about us

To create a product that serves the needs of all developers, we are building a diverse [all-remote team](../../../company/remote/index.md) that is [distributed across the world](../../../company/team/index.md). Sourcegraph is an equal opportunity workplace; we welcome people from all backgrounds and communities.

We provide [competitive compensation](../../people-ops/compensation.md) and [practical benefits](../../people-ops/benefits-and-perks.md) to keep you happy and healthy so that you can do your best work.

Learn more about what it is like to work at Sourcegraph by reading [our handbook](../../index.md)

## Interview process

> 1. You apply here (TODO - create Lever job)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- 1. You [apply here](#todo). --><!-- This is commented out because I will be sending some outbound messages before accepting applications. -->
```

1. Intro calls
   - 45m [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) (VP Engineering)

>    - 30m [Beyang Liu](../../../company/team/index.md#beyang-liu) (CTO)

Reviewer: @tsenart I was thinking you might be a good second screen here (Loïc did this for web team role). What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Strong ➕ 1 on this recommendation. Not only is it good for Sourcegraph to have the existing EM screen candidates, but when I met Loïc when I interviewed for the Wed EM role I found it very helpful in helping understand the expectation and challenges of the team. It gives the candidate a good opportunity to assess whether they are interested in the opportunity.

Author: SGTM, I'll push a change.

     - The interviewers will be [Nick Snyder](../../../company/team/index.md#nick-snyder-he-him) and [Tomás Senart](../../../company/team/index.md#tomás-senart).
   - 1h [Technical experience](https://github.com/sourcegraph/interviews/blob/master/engineering/technical-experience.md) - We ask you about your past work and accomplishments.
     - The interviewers will be two of the following:
       - [Ryan Slade](../../../company/team/index.md#ryan-slade-he-him)
       - [Alex Russell-Saw](../../../company/team/index.md#alex-russell-saw-he-him)
       - [Thorsten Ball](../../../company/team/index.md#thorsten-ball-he-him)
   - 30m [Quinn Slack](../../../company/team/index.md#quinn-slack) (CEO)

If we want to move forward after these sets of interviews, we will setup 30-minute calls to meet any [members of the Cloud team](../cloud/index.md#members) that weren't already an interviewer. These calls are informal and don't have a script.

We want to ensure Sourcegraph is an environment that suits your working style and empowers you to do your best work, so we are eager to answer any questions that you have about us at any point in the interview process.

> Apply here. — TODO Create Lever job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- **[Click here to apply](#todo)** --><!-- This is commented out because I will be sending some outbound messages before accepting applications. -->
```
